In this lesson, we'll learn about CI/CD.
Now, CI/CD stands for Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery.
These terminologies are self explanatory,
but let's look into the definition.
What is the CI/CD?
CI stands for Continuous Integration,
and it's a set of practices that drive development teams to implement
small changes and checking code to version control repositories frequently.
It's a consistent and automated way for DevOps team to build,
package, and test applications.
Whereas, CD, which stands for Continuous Delivery,
picks up where Continuous Integration ends.
So CD automates the delivery of applications to selected infrastructure environments.
By infrastructure environments, I mean,
the environments like pre-prod, or development,
or stage, or quality assurance environment,
and prod environment like production environment.
Let's look at where this fits in in the product development phases.
We had spoken about this in the past where the first phase is planning,
then code, then implementation,
we then build the application,
test it, and then release,
and deploy it to the infrastructure environment,
like I spoke about,
and that becomes operational.
Now, CI/CD start from the process, from here,
where the building, testing,
release, and deployment phase comes into picture.
In this lesson, we will try to implement
the whole CI/CD pipeline using a certain set of technologies.
We will showcase building,
and then how to ship,
and then run the application in Cloud.
The choice of technologies we have for today, for this lesson,
is using Jenkins, Docker for containerization,
and we will deploy it in AWS.
Now, let's go over this example.
Let's say that we have a distributed application and we
want to make continuous changes to our application,
this is going to be done by multiple developers that are working on this application.
They could be using different tools,
they could be using different technologies,
but they are building one application,
and that is in distributed fashion.
How do we achieve this?
What we do here is we choose a code-base repository,
and our choice here is GitHub.
What do we do then is we have chosen Jenkins as a CI tool.
We get that deployed on Docker,
a container, and that gets finally deployed onto Cloud.
Our choice here for that is AWS.
So this application can be used by our end-users like desktop,
or mobile, or iPad.
This can still be developed in a distributed environment by multiple developers,
and this is achieved through the usage of various CI/CD tools like we just mentioned.
So let's look at the next segment and see how we achieve this in our local setup,
or how we achieve this in Cloud setup.